# AddedCrimeDataForTheftsToWageGapFile

this repository has multiple different formats of extracted data from the web for the top 14 metros in a prior repository to add the crime statistics. An R program was used to create the crime counts of data on thefts, burglaries, robberies, vehicle thefts, auto thefts, and so on. The files were transformed using Tableau for the pdf data table and csv files, filtering for those crimes and the year 2017, then those files for BRT for burglaries, robberies, and thefts were calculated by summing up the totals in aggregate data for those crimes or by using the sum of the length or number of observations for those data sets with single counts and specific dates in 2017. Then Tableau was used to join with an inner join by CBSA.Title or CBSA Title by adding that title to the crime counts by the 14 metros. There are Word documents explaining the data resources for the 2017 year data on crimes per metro. The created file is MetroThefts.csv using R and the final top 14 metro regions with Zillow housing data and BLS wage data in the year 2017 is then loaded with the MetroThefts.csv file to form the crime-housing-wage data for visualizing the data on wage gaps per metro in 2017. This final file is the csv file WageGapInformationTop14MetrosBRTadded2017. Most filtering was done using Tableau for the year of 2017 and the crimes to select anything manually with Theft, burglary, or robbery, or stolen property.

More data will be added as time permits to include the birth and death rates per metro, natural disasters, number of businesses closing and opening for each metro, and other curiosities again as time permits. 
